doc/nrf/ug_nrf5340: Documentation on net-core serial recovery (#8141)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/ug_nrf5340.rst

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PCD_APP` - Enable commands exchange with the network core.
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_UPDATEABLE_IMAGE_NUMBER` - Enable support for multiple update partitions by setting this option to ``2``.

> After that the feature will be selected by default thanks to :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF53_MULTI_IMAGE_UPDATE`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF53_MULTI_IMAGE_UPDATE` - Select the simultaneous multi-image DFU feature.
```
Suggesting to move this option to the beginning of the list above.

Author: I should have meant that: After that the feature will be <b>automatically</b> selected by default thanks to ...
So there is no real need to enable CONFIG_NRF53_MULTI_IMAGE_UPDAT manually. I just wan't to mention the option name so it became visible to the user.

Reviewer: Okay. How about something like this then: "After setting these options, the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF53_MULTI_IMAGE_UPDATE` option selects this feature automatically by default."

Author: applied

> After setting these options, the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF53_MULTI_IMAGE_UPDATE` option selects this feature automatically by default.

Author: @MarekPieta What about sth liike:
`After setting these options (and all other dependences), the `

> The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF53_MULTI_IMAGE_UPDATE` option selects this feature by default if these above and other its dependencies are asserted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF53_MULTI_IMAGE_UPDATE` option selects this feature by default if these options and all its other dependencies are asserted.
```

Samples and applications built for Thingy:53 enable simultaneous update of multiple images by default.
To learn more about Thingy:53, see :ref:`ug_thingy53`.

MCUboot's serial recovery of the networking core image
******************************************************

In addition to the recovery of the application core image, also the networking core image can be recovered.
You can use this feature if you build nRF53 MCUboot with one of the following options:

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF53_MULTI_IMAGE_UPDATE` - Simultaneous multi-image DFU.
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF53_RECOVERY_NETWORK_CORE` - Serial recovery for the network core in the one image pair mode.

To upload the networking image, use the following command::

     ./mcumgr image upload <build_dir_path>/zephyr/net_core_app_update.bin -e -n 3 -c serial_conn

> ``serial_conn`` is the serial connection configuration.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``serial_conn`` is the serial connection configuration.
For more information on MCUmgr image management, see :ref:`zephyr:image_mgmt`

```

> To enable serial recovery of the network core while multi-image update is not enabled in the MCUboot, set the following options:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enable the serial recovery of the network core while the multi-image update is not enabled in the MCUboot, set the following options:
```

You can use this feature if you build nRF53 MCUboot with one of the following options:

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF53_MULTI_IMAGE_UPDATE` - Simultaneous multi-image DFU.
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF53_RECOVERY_NETWORK_CORE` - Serial recovery for the network core in the one image pair mode, where :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_UPDATEABLE_IMAGE_NUMBER` is set to ``== 1``.

To upload the networking image, use the following command::

     ./mcumgr image upload <build_dir_path>/zephyr/net_core_app_update.bin -e -n 3 -c serial_conn

``serial_conn`` is the serial connection configuration.
For more information on MCUmgr image management, see :ref:`zephyr:image_mgmt`

To enable the serial recovery of the network core while the multi-image update is not enabled in the MCUboot, set the following options:

* select :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BOOT_IMAGE_ACCESS_HOOK`
* select :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_FLASH_SIMULATOR`
* select :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_FLASH_SIMULATOR_DOUBLE_WRITES`
* disable :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_FLASH_SIMULATOR_STATS`
* select :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUBOOT_SERIAL_DIRECT_IMAGE_UPLOAD`
* select :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF53_RECOVERY_NETWORK_CORE`

> Additionally, define and include the memory partitions:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additionally, define and include the following memory partitions:
```

Samples and applications built for Thingy:53 enable simultaneous update of multiple images by default.
To learn more about Thingy:53, see :ref:`ug_thingy53`.

> MCUboot's serial recovery of the networking core image

Reviewer 3: Two doubts about this section:

- Shouldn't this section be part of the MCUboot documentation? After all, recovering different cores can be a feature not restricted to only nRF5340 DK. In fact, we have also the guide for Thingy:53, so wouldn't this information be valid there as well?
- Shouldn't this section be a subsection of Simultaneous multi-image DFU, not a top section?

Reviewer 2: I'm guessing this depends on CONFIG_NRF53_RECOVERY_NETWORK_CORE which should be strictly related to the 5340. @nvlsianpu ?

But yeah, I agree this should go in as a subsection

Author: Section is specific to nRF5340 mcuboot downstream feature. Wher I should place it then?

Shouldn't this section be a subsection of Simultaneous multi-image DFU, not a top section?
No, the simultaneous multi-image DFU is one of two way to make this feature enabled.

Author: ^^
@FrancescoSer I put the documentation update in this file only because it already contains documentation on CONFIG_NRF53_MULTI_IMAGE_UPDAT.

******************************************************

> In addition to the recovery of the application core image, also the networking core image can be recovered.

Reviewer 3: Do we have the application core image recovery described anywhere? This reference to the application core image begs for a link here...

Author: Serial recovery is the same serial protocol as used by the mcumgr/smp_svr sample. We don't have any doc on that,

Reviewer 2: Isn't this the protocol description? https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK/doc/latest/zephyr/services/device_mgmt/smp_protocol.html

> You can use this feature if you build nRF53 MCUboot with one of the following options:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When you build MCUboot for the nRF5340 DK, you can use this feature with one of the following options:
```

Reviewer 2: Please apply this

Author: @FrancescoSer These options might be available for both nRF5340DK and thingy53 (or any else nRF53 board if user can meet dependencies).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you build MCUboot for the nRF5340 DK or the Thingy:53, you can use this feature with one of the following options:
```

Ok so let's edit this a bit for now, and we will see to move the content in the thingy:53 guide after this PR gets merged

> You can use this feature if you build nRF53 MCUboot with one of the following options:

Reviewer 4: Discussed offline.

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF53_MULTI_IMAGE_UPDATE` - Simultaneous multi-image DFU.

> * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF53_RECOVERY_NETWORK_CORE` - Serial recovery for the network core in the one image pair mode.

Reviewer 3: What is the "one image pair mode" and where can I find more info about it? I see no results when looking for it in MCUboot docs and NCS docs...

Author: one image pair mode is the mode when UPDATEABLE_IMAGE_NUMBER == 1, so most popular dual-bank mode.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF53_RECOVERY_NETWORK_CORE` - Serial recovery for the network core in the one image pair mode, where :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_UPDATEABLE_IMAGE_NUMBER` is set to ``== 1``.
  
```

To upload the networking image, use the following command::

     ./mcumgr image upload <build_dir_path>/zephyr/net_core_app_update.bin -e -n 3 -c serial_conn

``serial_conn`` is the serial connection configuration.

> To enable serial recovery of the network core while multi-image update is not enabled in the MCUboot, set the following options:

Reviewer 3: Where can I find information about enabling serial recovery in the MCUboot docs?
I see we don't have much about this in the NCS docs either, so maybe we should adapt https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK/doc/latest/nrf/applications/nrf_desktop/README.html#serial-recovery-dfu for the general docs? @MarekPieta , @pdunaj , opinions?

Reviewer 4: Such a generic section would be definitely nice to have (maybe it could be even part of MCUboot's docs).
The docs of serial recovery in nRF Desktop could be used as a base (we would just need to remove references which are specific to nRF Desktop application).

Reviewer 2: Maybe a section regarding serial recovery could fit in ug_fw_update.rst, but I see this as a separate task from this PR.

* select :kconfig:option:`BOOT_IMAGE_ACCESS_HOOK`
* select :kconfig:option:`FLASH_SIMULATOR`
* select :kconfig:option:`FLASH_SIMULATOR_DOUBLE_WRITES`
* disable :kconfig:option:`FLASH_SIMULATOR_STATS`
* select :kconfig:option:`MCUBOOT_SERIAL_DIRECT_IMAGE_UPLOAD`
* select :kconfig:option:`NRF53_RECOVERY_NETWORK_CORE`

Additionally, define and include the memory partitions:

> * ``mcuboot_primary`` and ``mcuboot_secondary`` - partitions for the application core image slots.
> * ``mcuboot_primary_1`` - partition for the network core image slot.
> * ``pcd_sram`` - partition used for command exchange between the application core and the network core (see :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PCD_APP`).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* ``mcuboot_primary`` and ``mcuboot_secondary`` - Partitions for the application core image slots.
* ``mcuboot_primary_1`` - Partition for the network core image slot.
* ``pcd_sram`` - Partition for command exchange between the application core and the network core (see :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PCD_APP`).
```

.. note::

> 

Reviewer 3: No.

   When using MCUboot with the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF53_RECOVERY_NETWORK_CORE` option enabled,
   the application core does not have direct access to the network core flash memory.
   Due to this, mcuboot_primary_1 must be used as the RAM partition mediator.

Container for firmware update binaries

> ======================================

Reviewer 3: Is this section related to the serial recovery of the network core? It is now set to become a subsection of that chapter.

Reviewer 2: @nvlsianpu Please check Greg's comment

Author: @FrancescoSer `Container for firmware update binaries` section is related to `Simultaneous multi-image DFU` and DFU in general.

Samples and applications built for Thingy:53 enable simultaneous update of multiple images by default.
To learn more about Thingy:53, see :ref:`ug_thingy53`.

> MCUboot's serial recovery of the Networking core image

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MCUboot's serial recovery of the networking core image
```

******************************************************

> Apart from capability of the recovery of the application core image, also capability of recovery of the networking core
> is avielable. The feature is possible to be used if nRF53 MCUboot was build either with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to the recovery of the application core image, also the networking core image can be recovered.
You can use this feature if you build nRF53 MCUboot with one of the following options:
```

> * the "Simultaneous multi-image DFU" option enabled (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF53_MULTI_IMAGE_UPDATE`)
> * the "Serial recovery for the NET-core in the one image pair mode" opton enabled (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF53_RECOVERY_NETWORK_CORE`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF53_MULTI_IMAGE_UPDATE` - Simultaneous multi-image DFU.
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF53_RECOVERY_NETWORK_CORE` - Serial recovery for the network core in the one image pair mode.
```

> In order to upload the networking image need to specify it's slot explictly by 3, for instance using mcumgr cli image upload -n option::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To upload the networking image, use the following command::
```

     ./mcumgr image upload <build_dir_path>/zephyr/net_core_app_update.bin -e -n 3 -c serial_conn

> where serial_conn is the serial connection configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``serial_conn`` is the serial connection configuration.
```

> To enable serial recovey of the net core while multi-image update is not enabled in the MCUboot, set the following option:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable serial recovery of the network core while multi-image update is not enabled in the MCUboot, set the following options:
```

* select :kconfig:option:`BOOT_IMAGE_ACCESS_HOOK`
* select :kconfig:option:`FLASH_SIMULATOR`
* select :kconfig:option:`FLASH_SIMULATOR_DOUBLE_WRITES`
* disable :kconfig:option:`FLASH_SIMULATOR_STATS`
* select :kconfig:option:`MCUBOOT_SERIAL_DIRECT_IMAGE_UPLOAD`

> * and fillanly select :kconfig:option:`NRF53_RECOVERY_NETWORK_CORE`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* select :kconfig:option:`NRF53_RECOVERY_NETWORK_CORE`
```

> Additionally, the memory partitions must be defined and include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, define and include the memory partitions:
```

> * ``mcuboot_primary`` and ``mcuboot_secondary`` partitions for the application core image slots.
> * ``mcuboot_primary_1`` partitions for the network core image slot.
> * ``pcd_sram`` partition used for command exchange between the application core and the network core (see :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PCD_APP`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``mcuboot_primary`` and ``mcuboot_secondary`` - partitions for the application core image slots.
* ``mcuboot_primary_1`` - partition for the network core image slot.
* ``pcd_sram`` - partition used for command exchange between the application core and the network core (see :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PCD_APP`).
```

.. note::

>    When MCUboot is used with :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF53_RECOVERY_NETWORK_CORE` enabled
>    The application core does not have direct access to the network core flash memory.
>    This is similar as for Simultaneous multi-image DFU, so is using
>    the ``mcuboot_primary_1`` RAM partition mediator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   When using MCUboot with the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF53_RECOVERY_NETWORK_CORE` option enabled,
   the application core does not have direct access to the network core flash memory.
   Use ``mcuboot_primary_1`` as the RAM partition mediator.
```

Author: This is explanation of reason because of which mcuboot_primary_1 must exist.
The suggestion changes the meaning.

Reviewer: Sorry for messing up the meaning. How about then something like: "Due to this, ``mcuboot_primary_1`` is used as the RAM partition mediator".

Author: applied
